[url]: http://www1.szu.edu.cn/board/view.asp?id=483813
深大金融科技学院“商学思享Seminar”
金融科技学院　2022/11/11 10:46:00
  主讲人/Speaker： 李景景副教授，深圳南特金融科技学院
时  间/Date &Time：2022年11月17日（周四）上午11:00 -12:00
地点/Location：深圳大学粤海校区汇星楼五楼金融科技学院560会议室
线上会议/Online meeting: 腾讯会议，会议号：846-000-329
主 题/Title：Childbearing Age and Gender Discrimination in Hiring Decisions: A Large-Scale Field Experiment
内容简介/ Abstract：
We conduct a large-scale field experiment in China to investigate the effect of being of childbearing age on gender discrimination in the labor market. We send 35,713 fictitious resumes to real job postings on a major Chinese online recruitment platform for jobs in four leading cities, Beijing, Shanghai, Guangzhou, and Shenzhen, which vary in the length of maternity leave.  We  send applications for positions advertised in the male-dominated field of information technology (IT), the female-dominated field of accounting (ACC), and the mixed-gender field of human resources (HR). We systematically vary the age and gender of the job applicants and record callbacks for interviews. To accurately mimic the job application process in the Chinese labor market, we do not disclose the applicants’ family status. We find that women of childbearing age are subject to discrimination in the field of IT, a problem that also exists in HR and ACC, particularly in Beijing and Shanghai. There is no obvious discrimination against women of childbearing age in Guangzhou or Shenzhen, where maternity leave is longer. In the aggregate, the evidence indicates that women of childbearing age face statistical discrimination that prevents them from obtaining equal employment opportunities.
  嘉宾介绍：
Li King King is an Experimental Economist. He is currently an associate professor at Shenzhen Audencia Financial Technology Institute, WeBank Institute of Financial Technology, Shenzhen University. Previously, he was on the faculty of City University of Hong Kong, Shanghai University of Finance and Economics, and postdoc at Max Planck Institute of Economics in Germany.
  His research interests are in Experimental Economics, Behavioral Economics, and Behavioral Finance. He is the first to use Experimental Economics to study the effect of language on decision making (Li, 2017, JEconPsy), memory recall biases (Li, 2013, ExpEcon), and preference for randomization (Li, 2011, JRU). He has published in Management Science, Experimental Economics, Journal of Economic Psychology, Social Choice and Welfare, Journal of Risk and Uncertainty, Economic Theory, and Human Brain Mapping.
  He is an Associate Editor of the Journal of Economic Behavior and Organization, and a member of the Editorial Board of the Journal of Behavioral and Experimental Economics. Professor Li’s recent research topics include neutrality of money, investor behavior, and field experiments related to environmental protection and labor market discrimination. 
  欢迎感兴趣的师生参加！
（本文更新于2022/11/11 10:46:00）